README.md, before:

#  OpenStack Manila API v2 support in OpenStackSDK
Manila is an open source OpenStack Shared File System service that is a software that exists within the OpenStack cloud. It is a collection of microservices and other components that provide self-service management of elastic file system storage infrastructure that can allow you to work with and provision storage via 30+ storage technologies over file system protocols. It is unique in how it is able to add RESTful semantics to consuming shared storage in a reliable and scalable manner
## 1.   Vision and Goals Of The Project:
- Implementing features of the Manila API to the OpenStack Python SDK to be ready for the OpenStack Yoga release cycle.
- The aim of this project is to improve usability by providing consistent usage patterns and abstractions alongside operator tools and troubleshooting aids
- Some of the goals of Manila are to be/have:
  - **Component based architecture**: Quickly add new behaviors
  - **Highly available**: Scale to very serious workloads
  - **Fault-Tolerant**: Isolated processes avoid cascading failures
  - **Recoverable**: Failures should be easy to diagnose, debug, and rectify
  - **Open Standards**: Be a reference implementation for a community-driven api

## 2. Users/Personas Of The Project:
- End-users of Manila
- People that use OpenStack to develop their public cloud environment projects
- 

## 3.   Scope and Features Of The Project:
- The features of the OpenStack Shared File System API all fall within the scope of this project. Though the individual features we will be working on have not been decided yet by the mentors.
- Some possible API Features we will be working on (descriptions copied over from API documentation):

  - Managing/ Unmanaging Snapshots
    - Use the Shared File Systems service to make snapshots of shares. A share snapshot is a point-in-time, read-only copy of the data that is contained in a share. The APIs below allow controlling share snapshots. They are represented by a “snapshot” resource in the Shared File Systems service, and they can have user-defined metadata such as a name and description.
Users can create, manage, update, and delete share snapshots. Users can create a share from it, or can also revert a share to its most recent snapshot through OpenStack SDK.
  - Managing/ Unmanaging Shares
    - A share is a remote, mountable file system. In the APIs below, a share resource is a representation of this remote file system within the Shared File Systems service. This resource representation includes useful metadata, communicating the characteristics of the remote file system as determined by the user and the Shared File Systems service.
Users can create a share and associate it with a network, list shares, and show information for, update, and delete a share through OpenStack SDK.
  - Managing/ Unmanaging Shares Servers
    - A share server is created by multi-tenant back-end drivers where shares are hosted. For example, with the generic driver, shares are hosted on Compute VMs.
Administrators can perform read and delete actions for share servers. An administrator can delete an active share server only if it contains no dependent shares. If an administrator deletes the share server, the Shared File Systems service creates a share server in response to a subsequent create share request.

## 4. Solution Concept
![alt text](https://wiki.openstack.org/w/images/4/43/Shares_Service.png)
- https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila 

## 5. Acceptance criteria
- Implement a good (not-yet-determined) amount of features of the OpenStack Shared File Systems (Manila) API into the OpenStack Python SDK, create strenuous unit tests for them, and push them to the github branch https://github.com/openstack/openstacksdk/tree/feature/r1/openstack/shared_file_system/v2 .
- Minimum acceptance criteria and stretch goals not yet specified by mentors.

## 6.  Release Planning:
- We will be implementing individual API features including tests for all features we implement and releasing features into the github branch individually in a weekly/bi-weekly manner. (not fully confirmed yet by mentors, but we will losely follow the OpenStack Yoga release cycle)
- Sprint 1: Signing up for the accounts necessary to contribute to OpenStack. Keeping in touch with the mentors. Figuring out the first steps we will be taking, the features we will implement.
- Sprint 2: Starting work on implementing features we will have decided on in sprint 1.

Commit message:

Update section 2
Add more details about the end users and applications of the Manila API

README.md, after:

#  OpenStack Manila API v2 support in OpenStackSDK
Manila is an open source OpenStack Shared File System service that is a software that exists within the OpenStack cloud. It is a collection of microservices and other components that provide self-service management of elastic file system storage infrastructure that can allow you to work with and provision storage via 30+ storage technologies over file system protocols. It is unique in how it is able to add RESTful semantics to consuming shared storage in a reliable and scalable manner
## 1.   Vision and Goals Of The Project:
- Implementing features of the Manila API to the OpenStack Python SDK to be ready for the OpenStack Yoga release cycle.
- The aim of this project is to improve usability by providing consistent usage patterns and abstractions alongside operator tools and troubleshooting aids
- Some of the goals of Manila are to be/have:
  - **Component based architecture**: Quickly add new behaviors
  - **Highly available**: Scale to very serious workloads
  - **Fault-Tolerant**: Isolated processes avoid cascading failures
  - **Recoverable**: Failures should be easy to diagnose, debug, and rectify
  - **Open Standards**: Be a reference implementation for a community-driven api

## 2. Users/Personas Of The Project:
- End-users of Manila
- People that use OpenStack to develop their public cloud environment projects
- Some major companies using openStack: Adobe, American Express, Best buy, Bloomberg
- Few services that can be achieved using manila are:
  - **Database as a service**: With a database as a service model, application owners do not have to install and maintain the database themselves. Instead, the database service provider takes responsibility for installing and maintaining the database, and application owners are charged according to their usage of the service. It is similar to software as a service.
  - **Big Data**: Through Manila’s HDFS native driver plugin, users can create a highly scalable, flexible, fast, and cost effective storage platform, because it can store and distribute very large data sets across hundreds of inexpensive servers that operate in parallel.
  - **cross-tenant data sharing**: a tenant is a group of users sharing common access to a software instance with specific privileges. As manila is a shared file system, we can use its capabilities to achieve data-sharing between multiple tenants. This can help software to run in a distributed environment ensuring that all the different instances are sharing the same data.

## 3.   Scope and Features Of The Project:
- The features of the OpenStack Shared File System API all fall within the scope of this project. Though the individual features we will be working on have not been decided yet by the mentors.
- Some possible API Features we will be working on (descriptions copied over from API documentation):

  - Managing/ Unmanaging Snapshots
    - Use the Shared File Systems service to make snapshots of shares. A share snapshot is a point-in-time, read-only copy of the data that is contained in a share. The APIs below allow controlling share snapshots. They are represented by a “snapshot” resource in the Shared File Systems service, and they can have user-defined metadata such as a name and description.
Users can create, manage, update, and delete share snapshots. Users can create a share from it, or can also revert a share to its most recent snapshot through OpenStack SDK.
  - Managing/ Unmanaging Shares
    - A share is a remote, mountable file system. In the APIs below, a share resource is a representation of this remote file system within the Shared File Systems service. This resource representation includes useful metadata, communicating the characteristics of the remote file system as determined by the user and the Shared File Systems service.
Users can create a share and associate it with a network, list shares, and show information for, update, and delete a share through OpenStack SDK.
  - Managing/ Unmanaging Shares Servers
    - A share server is created by multi-tenant back-end drivers where shares are hosted. For example, with the generic driver, shares are hosted on Compute VMs.
Administrators can perform read and delete actions for share servers. An administrator can delete an active share server only if it contains no dependent shares. If an administrator deletes the share server, the Shared File Systems service creates a share server in response to a subsequent create share request.

## 4. Solution Concept
![alt text](https://wiki.openstack.org/w/images/4/43/Shares_Service.png)
- https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila 

## 5. Acceptance criteria
- Implement a good (not-yet-determined) amount of features of the OpenStack Shared File Systems (Manila) API into the OpenStack Python SDK, create strenuous unit tests for them, and push them to the github branch https://github.com/openstack/openstacksdk/tree/feature/r1/openstack/shared_file_system/v2 .
- Minimum acceptance criteria and stretch goals not yet specified by mentors.

## 6.  Release Planning:
- We will be implementing individual API features including tests for all features we implement and releasing features into the github branch individually in a weekly/bi-weekly manner. (not fully confirmed yet by mentors, but we will losely follow the OpenStack Yoga release cycle)
- Sprint 1: Signing up for the accounts necessary to contribute to OpenStack. Keeping in touch with the mentors. Figuring out the first steps we will be taking, the features we will implement.
- Sprint 2: Starting work on implementing features we will have decided on in sprint 1.
